# Structure

The repository is structured as follows:

* `install/`: scripts to install the docker containers, load/dump data, etc.
* `analysis/`: the Python scripts for data analysis
* `config/`: configuration automatically generated by `docker_create_elastic_servers.sh` to store the credentials


# Installation

## Elastic Search & Kibana


We propose two options:
* Docker
* Virtual Machines (e.g., Open Nebula)

In any case, the installation produces `config/myconfig.py` including all the parameters and credentials. This python script is typically included by all oter Python scripts to get the local parameters of the installation (IP address of the server, credentials, etc.)

You should read the messages printed at the end of the installation process to see the procedure to connect Kibana and Elastic Search (a manual procedure is still needed):

* Use your browser to visit `http://IP_VM:5601` and use the enrollment key and the verification code provided by the script (both in the output and in `myconfig.py`)

* You can use the Kibana interface to dig into the elastic search index ``http://IP_VM:5601``



### Docker

We provide the scripts for a docker installation of Kibana and elastic search. 

* one container for Elastic Search, another container for Kibana

	* you can select the version number in the scripts

* Please run: `docker_create_elastic_servers`



### Virtual Machines

We provide the scripts for a VM installation of Kibana and elastic search.

* one VM for Kibana + one elastic search node

* other VM for other elastic search nodes to create a cluster (not yet supported)
 
* Please run: `vm_create_elastic_servers.sh`




## Python packages

We rely on the following Python packages:
* pandas
* requests
* elasticsearch
* seaborn
* matplotlib

You can install them with:

* `apt-get install python3-venv` if the package is not yest installed on your system (debian-like distribution) 
* `python3 -m venv .venv`
* `source .venv/bin/activate`
* `pip install -r install/requirements.txt`



## Elasticdump

We rely on elasticdump () to backup and restore the dataset. npm and the `elasticdump`package are automatically installed when you run the scripts.


We provide the following scripts to dump/load data in elastic search servers:

* `elasticdump_from_lora-es_per_month.sh` connects to the elastic search server at ICube, and creates one compressed json dump per month

* `elasticdump_load_data.sh` is a bash script to connect to the local installation and that injects the dump in the local elastic search instance


You can explore the dataset in Kibana (cf. install section), by default: [http://IP@_ES_SERVER:5601/app/enterprise_search/content/search_indices/lora-index](http://IP@_ES_SERVER:5601/app/enterprise_search/content/search_indices/lora-index)



# Data analysis

## Structuration

* All scripts use `myconfig.py` to store the parameters (IP address of the server, credentials) for elastic search.

* All plots are saved in pdf format in the `analysis/figures` directory. Then should be run in the following order




## Pre-Processing

We regrouped all the scripts for the pre-processing in the `preproc` directory:

1. `insert_extra_infos.py`: insert LoRa information, by dissecting LoRa frames (additional fields per record in the index);
2. `insert_dup_infos`: identify duplicated packets, flagged accordingly in the index;
3. `extract_interpacket_distribution`: extract for each address the sequence of packets, chronologically ordered.
**Disclaimer:** several devices may share the same address, thus we implemented an algorithm to infer the different flows sharing the same address


All these scripts can be stopped and restarted at any time: they will continue where they stopped. 




## Analaysis

You should use a local venv for your Python packages, and activate it (`source .venv/bin/activate`). Please see the install section.

We implemented the following analysis:

* `SF_analysis.py`: distribution of traffic for the spreading factors

* `traffic_temporal_analysis.py`: temporal analysis of the traffic (per day of week, per hour)

* `flow-distribution.py`: CDF of the traffic per gateway and device



# Data 

All the preprocessed data is stored locally in the directory `data/`.

## Flows

`distrib_XXX_YYY.parquet` contains the list of packets (timestamp, frame counter) for a flow identified by its devAddr (XXX) and the first frame counter of the flow (YYY). 

> Caution: different flows may have packets with the same frame counter. These packets are just not generated chronologically close.